Proposal for Automatic Calculation of Moments of Inertia for SDFormat Links (#92)
gazebosim/sdf_tutorials: auto_inertial_params/proposal.md

<script src='https://cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/mathjax/2.7.5/MathJax.js?config=TeX-MML-AM_CHTML' async></script>

# Automatically Compute Inertia Tensor Proposal

* **Authors**:

> Jasmeet Singh `<jasmeet0915@gmail.com>`, Addisu Taddese `<addisu@openrobotics.org>`, Dharini Dutia `<dharinidutia@intrinsic.ai>`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Jasmeet Singh `<jasmeet0915@gmail.com>`, Addisu Taddese `<addisu@openrobotics.org>`, Dharini Dutia `<dharinidutia@openrobotics.org>`
```

Author: Fixed in 0a09b7da1822bb893b2b4aafce5d3a8c27874ff2

* **Status**: Draft
* **SDFormat Version**: 1.11
* **`libSDFormat` Version**: 14.X 

## Introduction

> This proposal suggests adding new attributes and elements to support the automatic calculation of Moments of Inertia and Products of Inertia for a link in SDFormat 1.11. It also proposes adding support for parsing these elements and attributes in libsdformat14.

Reviewer: Could add links to Moments of Inertia wiki

Author: Added a link to [this](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_moments_of_inertia) wiki page in 0a09b7da1822bb893b2b4aafce5d3a8c27874ff2

> Setting physically plausible values for inertial parameters is crucial for an accurate simulation. However, these parameters are often complex to comprehend and visualize. Therefore, incorporating native support for the automatic calculation of inertial parameters of a link through the SDF specification would enable simulators that utilize SDFormat to provide an enhanced and smoother workflow.

Reviewer: Very long sentence, please consider rephrasing
```suggestion
Setting physically plausible values for inertial parameters is crucial. However, these parameters are often complex to comprehend and visualize. And users may tend to enter wrong values leading to incorrect simulation. Through native support for automatic calculation of inertial parameters of a link through an SDF specification would enable simulators that utilize SDFormat to generate an accurate simulation. 
```

Author: Fixed in 0a09b7da1822bb893b2b4aafce5d3a8c27874ff2

## Document summary

The proposal includes the following sections:

* [Motivation](#motivation): A short explanation to provide context reagrding the problem statement and the need for this feature
* [User Perspective](#user-perspective): Describes the current usage and the proposed usage by describing the terms to be added in the SDFormat specification
* [Proposed Implmentation](#proposed-implementation): Detailed explanation of the proposed implmentation and modifications to be done in the C++ API of requried libraries like libsdformat. 

## Motivation

> Physically plausible values for inertial parameters like mass, center of mass, moments of inertia, etc. are required for an accurate simulation. Such parameters are often difficult to visualize and a user may tend to enter wrong values for parameters This often leads to an incorrect simulation which is hard to debug.

Reviewer: Can be removed as already covered in Introduction

Author: Removed in 0a09b7da1822bb893b2b4aafce5d3a8c27874ff2

Currently, there are 2 major workflows used by the users to obtain the correct inertial parameters of their models:

 * Using CAD softwares like [Fusion360](https://www.autodesk.in/products/fusion-360/overview?term=1-YEAR&tab=subscription) or [Solidworks](https://www.solidworks.com/). Many users design their robot models using such CAD software which usually provide plugins that automatically generates the URDF/SDF for their model. These plugins handle the calculation of the inertial parameters. For eg, Fusion360 provides the [Fusion2URDF](https://github.com/syuntoku14/fusion2urdf) plugin which automatically generates a URDF with all the inertial parameters.

 * Another way is to use 3rd-party Mesh Processing Software like [Meshlab](https://www.meshlab.net/). Such softwares take the mesh file as an input and provide the inertial parameters as an output which can then be copied and pasted into the URDF/SDF file. This is also the method that was suggested in official [Classic Gazebo docs](https://classic.gazebosim.org/tutorials?cat=build_robot&tut=inertia).

> Both of these ways create a dependency on external software and might be complicated for beginners. Integrating this directly in Gz Sim would provide a smoother and user-friendly workflow.

Reviewer: - Not sure if we should be talking about Gazebo here?
- Rephrase "smoother and user-friendly workflow" to the specific impact on maintaining physically plausible and accurate simulation

## User Perspective

> Currently to specify the `<inertial>` element of a `<link>` in SDFormat, the user needs to add the `<mass>`, `<pose>`, and `<inertia>` tags. Here `<mass>` is the mass of the link and `<pose>` is the pose of the Centre of Mass with respect to the link frame. The `<inertia>` tag, on the other hand, needs to enclose the following 6 tags:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To specify the `<inertial>` element of a `<link>` in SDFormat, the user needs to add the `<mass>`, `<pose>`, and `<inertia>` tags. Here `<mass>` is the mass of the link and `<pose>` is the pose of the Centre of Mass with respect to the link frame. The `<inertia>` tag, on the other hand, needs to enclose the following 6 tags:
```

 * `<ixx>` (Moment of Inertia)

 * `<iyy>` (Moment of Inertia)

 * `<izz>` (Moment of Inertia)

 * `<ixy>` (Product of Inertia)
 
 * `<ixz>` (Product of Inertia)
 
 * `<izy>` (Product of Inertia)

This proposal suggests the addition of an `auto` parameter for the `<inertia>` tag that would tell `libsdformat` to calculate Inertia matrix values automatically for the respective link. 

Usage example:    
```
<inertia auto=”true” />
```

> Addition of a `//link/collision/material_density` tag is also suggested. This density value would be used to calculate the inertial parameters of the respective collision geometry. Adding this as part of the `<collision>` tag would allow a user to simulate links with different material types for different collisions. By default, the value of density would be set equal to that of water which is 1 kg/m^3.  

Reviewer: Please rephrase this section by adding a numbered list of changes suggested, perhaps with example xml code of the proposed addtions.

Author: Rephrased this section and added a complete code snippet in 0a09b7da1822bb893b2b4aafce5d3a8c27874ff2

## Proposed Implementation
Below are some key architectural considerations for the implementation of this feature:

>  *  The parsing of the proposed SDFormat elements and the Moment of Inertia calculations for primitive geometries(Box, Cylinder, Sphere, Ellipsoid and Capsule) can be developed as an integral part of libsdformat. This would help enable all simulators that rely on SDFormat to utilize this feature and not limit it to just Gazebo.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 *  The parsing of the proposed SDFormat elements and the Moment of Inertia calculations for primitive geometries(Box, Cylinder, Sphere, Ellipsoid and Capsule) can be implemented as an integral part of `libsdformat`. This would help enable all simulators that rely on SDFormat to utilize this feature.
```

Author: Fixed in 0a09b7da1822bb893b2b4aafce5d3a8c27874ff2

>  * In case of 3D meshes being used as geometries, a modular architecture can be followed where the user is free to develop and use their own Moments of Inertia Calculators. The default approach for handling MOI calculations of 3D meshes for Gazebo is proposed below and would rely on [Voxelization of Meshes](#inertia-matrix-calculation-with-voxelization-for-3d-mesh).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * In case of 3D meshes being used as geometries, a modular architecture can be followed where the user can integrate a custom Moments of Inertia calculator. Though for a default implementation of MOI calculations of 3D meshes [Voxelization of Meshes](#inertia-matrix-calculation-with-voxelization-for-3d-mesh) is proposed 
```
see section [cite].

Author: Fixed in 0a09b7da1822bb893b2b4aafce5d3a8c27874ff2

>  * For links where `<inertial>` tag is not set, the inertial calculations would be omitted if `<static>` is set to true. Currently a [default value](https://github.com/gazebosim/sdformat/blob/4530dba5e83b5ee7868156d3040e7554f93b19a6/src/Link.cc#L164) is set with \\(I\_{xx}=I\_{yy}=I\_{zz}=1\\) and \\(I\_{xy}=I\_{yz}=I\_{xz}=0\\).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * For links where `<inertial>` tag is not set, the inertial calculations would be omitted if `<static>` is set to true. [Default values](https://github.com/gazebosim/sdformat/blob/4530dba5e83b5ee7868156d3040e7554f93b19a6/src/Link.cc#L164) could be set with \\(I\_{xx}=I\_{yy}=I\_{zz}=1\\) and \\(I\_{xy}=I\_{yz}=I\_{xz}=0\\).
```

An additional data member of type `gz::math::Material` would be added to `sdf::Collision` to set the density value of each collision. This `gz::math::Material` object would be passed to the `MassMatrix()` call for the respective geometry as specified above.
The flow of the [`sdf::Link::Load()`](https://github.com/gazebosim/sdformat/blob/4530dba5e83b5ee7868156d3040e7554f93b19a6/src/Link.cc#L170) function would be updated to check for the value of the `auto` parameter if the `<inertial>` tag is found and then accordingly call the required functions.

## Inertia Matrix Calculation with Voxelization for 3D Mesh

Voxels are the 3D equivalent of a pixel in 2D. Voxels can be arranged in ‘Voxel Grids’ which are the 3D equivalent of a structured image using pixels. 

During the voxelization of a point cloud or mesh, all the points in the 3D data are intersected with a Voxel Grid. The voxels which contain a point of the mesh are kept while others are zeroed out(discarded). This way, we are left with a voxelized mesh that closely resembles the original mesh.

> Voxelization of meshes/point cloud data is widely used for mesh processing. It can be used for feature extraction, occupancy analysis, asset generation, surface simplification, etc. 

Reviewer: Can be skipped, readers could be directed to a resource if they want to learn more

Author: Added reference links in: [d0c2523](https://github.com/gazebosim/sdf_tutorials/pull/92/commits/d0c25238a22888f21e76c210a764cdb29c64b663)

$$\begin{eqnarray}
I\_{11} = I\_{xx} = \rho\int (y^2 + z^2)dv \\\
I\_{22} = I\_{yy} = \rho\int (x^2 + z^2)dv \\\
I\_{33} = I\_{zz} = \rho\int (x^2 + y^2)dv \\\
I\_{12}  = I\_{xy} = \rho\int -xydv = I\_{yx} = I\_{21} \\\
I\_{13}  = I\_{xz} = \rho\int -xzdv = I\_{zx} = I\_{31} \\\
I\_{23}  = I\_{yz} = \rho\int -yzdv = I\_{zy} = I\_{32} \\\
\end{eqnarray}$$

### Advantages of the Voxelization Approach
 * Voxelization is a generalized approach that would work for all kinds of meshes (convex and non-convex meshes).
 * It can be made configurable by allowing the user to set an appropriate `voxel_size` for the process. A smaller `voxel_size` would be comparitively computationally heavy but would provide closer to real world value for moment of inertia.

>  * Voxelization is more intuitive way of moment of inertia calculations as compared to other integral methods. 

Reviewer: Add References section with links and resources to the concepts referenced here

Author: Done in [d0c2523](https://github.com/gazebosim/sdf_tutorials/pull/92/commits/d0c25238a22888f21e76c210a764cdb29c64b663)

<script src='https://cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/mathjax/2.7.5/MathJax.js?config=TeX-MML-AM_CHTML' async></script>

# Automatically Compute Inertia Tensor Proposal

* **Authors**:
Jasmeet Singh `<jasmeet0915@gmail.com>`, Addisu Taddese `<addisu@openrobotics.org>`, Dharini Dutia `<dharinidutia@openrobotics.org>`
* **Status**: Draft
* **SDFormat Version**: 1.11
* **`libSDFormat` Version**: 14.X 

## Introduction

> This proposal suggests adding new attributes and elements to support the automatic calculation of [Moments of Inertia and Products of Inertia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_moments_of_inertia) for a link in SDFormat 1.11. It also proposes adding support for parsing these elements and attributes in libsdformat14.

Reviewer 2: Please limit lines to about 80 characters for nicer diffs and easier reviews

Author: Done in [01ea4ff](https://github.com/gazebosim/sdf_tutorials/pull/92/commits/01ea4ff8ee4351de5fbe440cb31f11e80b627462)

> Setting physically plausible values for inertial parameters is crucial for an accurate simulation. However, these parameters are often complex to comprehend and visualize. And users may tend to enter wrong values leading to incorrect simulation. Therefore, native support for calculating inertial parameters through SDF specification would enable accurate simulations in simulators that use SDFormat.

Reviewer 2: nit: SDF -> SDFormat.

Author: Corrected in d240e64041c050fe6b5af3c3e1310c907c106625

> Setting physically plausible values for inertial parameters is crucial for an accurate simulation. However, these parameters are often complex to comprehend and visualize. And users may tend to enter wrong values leading to incorrect simulation. Therefore, native support for calculating inertial parameters through SDF specification would enable accurate simulations in simulators that use SDFormat.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Setting physically plausible values for inertial parameters is crucial for an accurate simulation. However, these parameters are often complex to comprehend and visualize, and users may tend to enter wrong values leading to incorrect simulation. Therefore, native support for calculating inertial parameters through SDFormat specification would enable accurate simulations in simulators that use SDFormat.
```

Author: Fixed in d240e64041c050fe6b5af3c3e1310c907c106625

> ## Document summary

Reviewer 2: Since you're using xpath syntax, it would be good to mention that and provide a link to http://sdformat.org/tutorials?tut=convention_tutorial&cat=specification&

Author: Added xpath syntax section in 16d8cc4d17f5a7d0313b699821bd9d5bb6156a59

The proposal includes the following sections:

* [Motivation](#motivation): A short explanation to provide context reagrding the problem statement and the need for this feature
* [User Perspective](#user-perspective): Describes the current usage and the proposed usage by describing the terms to be added in the SDFormat specification
* [Proposed Implmentation](#proposed-implementation): Detailed explanation of the proposed implmentation and modifications to be done in the C++ API of requried libraries like libsdformat. 

## Motivation

Currently, there are 2 major workflows used by the users to obtain the correct inertial parameters of their models:

>  * Using CAD softwares like [Fusion360](https://www.autodesk.in/products/fusion-360/overview?term=1-YEAR&tab=subscription) or [Solidworks](https://www.solidworks.com/). Many users design their robot models using such CAD software which usually provide plugins that automatically generates the URDF/SDF for their model. These plugins handle the calculation of the inertial parameters. For eg, Fusion360 provides the [Fusion2URDF](https://github.com/syuntoku14/fusion2urdf) plugin which automatically generates a URDF with all the inertial parameters.

Reviewer 2: nit: softwares -> software. Plural of software is software.

Author: Corrected in d240e64041c050fe6b5af3c3e1310c907c106625

>  * Using CAD softwares like [Fusion360](https://www.autodesk.in/products/fusion-360/overview?term=1-YEAR&tab=subscription) or [Solidworks](https://www.solidworks.com/). Many users design their robot models using such CAD software which usually provide plugins that automatically generates the URDF/SDF for their model. These plugins handle the calculation of the inertial parameters. For eg, Fusion360 provides the [Fusion2URDF](https://github.com/syuntoku14/fusion2urdf) plugin which automatically generates a URDF with all the inertial parameters.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 * Using CAD softwares like [Fusion360](https://www.autodesk.in/products/fusion-360/overview?term=1-YEAR&tab=subscription) or [Solidworks](https://www.solidworks.com/). Many users design their robot models using such CAD software which usually provide plugins that automatically generates the URDF/SDF for their model. These plugins handle the calculation of the inertial parameters. For example, Fusion360 provides the [Fusion2URDF](https://github.com/syuntoku14/fusion2urdf) plugin which automatically generates a URDF with all the inertial parameters.
```

Author: Fixed in d240e64041c050fe6b5af3c3e1310c907c106625

 * Another way is to use 3rd-party Mesh Processing Software like [Meshlab](https://www.meshlab.net/). Such softwares take the mesh file as an input and provide the inertial parameters as an output which can then be copied and pasted into the URDF/SDF file. This is also the method that was suggested in official [Classic Gazebo docs](https://classic.gazebosim.org/tutorials?cat=build_robot&tut=inertia).

> Both of these ways create a dependency on external software and might be complicated for beginners. Native support for this feature directly into Gz Sim would facilitate the effortless generation of accurate simulations.

Reviewer 2: It would be best to avoid gz-sim in this proposal if possible. Can this be reworded?

Author: Fixed in d240e64041c050fe6b5af3c3e1310c907c106625

## User Perspective

To specify the `<inertial>` element of a `<link>` in SDFormat, the user needs to add the `<mass>`, `<pose>`, and `<inertia>` tags. Here `<mass>` is the mass of the link and `<pose>` is the pose of the Centre of Mass with respect to the link frame. The `<inertia>` tag, on the other hand, needs to enclose the following 6 tags:

 * `<ixx>` (Moment of Inertia)

 * `<iyy>` (Moment of Inertia)

 * `<izz>` (Moment of Inertia)

 * `<ixy>` (Product of Inertia)
 
 * `<ixz>` (Product of Inertia)
 
 * `<izy>` (Product of Inertia)

This proposal suggests the addition of the following in `SDFormat`: 

>  1. An `auto` parameter for the `<inertia>` tag that would tell `libsdformat` to calculate Inertia matrix values automatically for the respective link. 

Reviewer 2: Can you add what happens if `auto="false"` or `auto` is not specified at all, just to be more explicit?

Reviewer 3: I think the `auto` attribute should be applied to `<inertial>` element (not `<inertia>`) so that it could compute the mass and inertial pose values as well

Author: `auto` applied to `<inertial>` in [221dce7](https://github.com/gazebosim/sdf_tutorials/pull/92/commits/221dce7a374eeca82113478c874a5f3656737c2d)

>  2. A `//link/collision/material_density` tag for specifying the density of the collision geometry. This density value would be used to calculate the inertial parameters of the respective collision geometry. Adding this as part of the `<collision>` tag would allow a user to simulate links with different material types for different collisions. By default, the value of density would be set equal to that of water which is 1 kg/m^3.  

Reviewer 2: `material_density` seems a little verbose. Why not just `density` or `mass_density`?

Author: Changed the tag in propsal in 3490edd2fb5a536c170f15ffb117190ae3f788e9 and in sdformat in c3c52aa223b69e6c406b327ab2c3cd1d8c2cb152

>  2. A `//link/collision/material_density` tag for specifying the density of the collision geometry. This density value would be used to calculate the inertial parameters of the respective collision geometry. Adding this as part of the `<collision>` tag would allow a user to simulate links with different material types for different collisions. By default, the value of density would be set equal to that of water which is 1 kg/m^3.  

Reviewer 2: The density of water is about 1000 kg/m^3

Author: Corrected the value in d240e64041c050fe6b5af3c3e1310c907c106625

The example snippet below shows how the above proposed elements would be used in a SDFormat `<link>`:

```
<link name="robot_link">
  <inertial>
    <inertia auto=”true” />
  </inertial>
  <collision name="collision">
    <material_density>*some_float_value*</material_density>

>       <geometry>

Reviewer 2: The `<geometry>` tag should have the same indentation has `<material_density>`.

Author: Fixed indentation in d240e64041c050fe6b5af3c3e1310c907c106625

        .
        .
      </geometry>
  </collision>
  <visual name="visual">
    <geometry>
      .
      .
    </geometry>
    <material>
      .
      .
    </material>
  </visual>
</link>
```

## Proposed Implementation
Below are some key architectural considerations for the implementation of this feature:

 *  The parsing of the proposed SDFormat elements and the Moment of Inertia calculations for primitive geometries(Box, Cylinder, Sphere, Ellipsoid and Capsule) can be implemented as an integral part of `libsdformat`. This would help enable all simulators that rely on SDFormat to utilize this feature.

>  * In case of 3D meshes being used as geometries, a modular architecture can be followed where the user can integrate a custom Moments of Inertia calculator. Though for a default implementation of MOI calculations of 3D meshes, a [Voxelization-based](#inertia-matrix-calculation-with-voxelization-for-3d-mesh) method is proposed.

Reviewer 2: Can you add a section on the API of the modular architecture for providing a MOI calculator function? Also, I believe even the voxelization method will not be implemented in libsdformat. It can be discussed here as a reference implementation, but I think discussing the API for the external MOI calculator is more important.

Author: Done in [fc2c6fb](https://github.com/gazebosim/sdf_tutorials/pull/92/commits/fc2c6fb8ab22e25cc3d265354eda3d2dab4a2f87)

### Moment of Inertia Matrix Calculation

The Moment of Inertia Matrix of an object is a 3x3 symmetric matrix. This means for all elements in a Moment of Inertia Matrix, I:

$$ I\_{ij} = I\_{ji} $$

The diagonal elements of the matrix are denoted as \\(I\_{xx}\\), \\(I\_{yy}\\) and \\(I\_{zz}\\) and are the Moments of Inertia of the object. The remaining 6 off-diagonal elements are called the Products of Inertia and their value depends on the symmetry of the object about the axes about which the MOI Tensor is being calculated. Only 3 values out of the 6 are needed since the matrix is symmetric. 

>**Note:** If the axis about which the MOI Tensor is calculated, is taken to be the principal axis of inertia, then the products of inertia become 0 and the matrix becomes a diagonal matrix.

All these values of MOI Tensor can be calculated as follows:

$$\begin{eqnarray} 
 I\_{11} = I\_{xx} = \int (y^2 + z^2)dm \\\
 I\_{22} = I\_{yy} = \int (x^2 + z^2)dm \\\
 I\_{33} = I\_{zz} = \int (x^2 + y^2)dm \\\
\end{eqnarray}$$

> Here \\(dm\\) is the mass of an infinitesimal unit of the object and \\(x, y, z\\) are the distances of that unit from axes. 

Reviewer 2: How is this axis defined? Do we take the center of mass frame defined in `//inertial/pose`? If so, how would we satisfy the condition that the  weighted position vectors relative to the COM is zero?
![image](https://github.com/gazebosim/sdf_tutorials/assets/206116/8332e92f-8aa4-4f63-b150-6a9f9d322120)

Or maybe we disallow specifying `//inertial/pose` if `//inertial[@auto="true"]` and calculate the COM as part of the automatic MOI calculation?

Author: As per the latest update in the feature, we calculate the `//inertial/pose` if `//inertia/[@auto="true"]` as part of the mesh inertia calculator. The user provided pose values are overwritten in this case.

# Automatically Compute Inertia Tensor Proposal

* **Authors**:
Jasmeet Singh `<jasmeet0915@gmail.com>`, Addisu Taddese `<addisu@openrobotics.org>`, Dharini Dutia `<dharinidutia@openrobotics.org>`
* **Status**: Draft
* **SDFormat Version**: 1.11
* **`libSDFormat` Version**: 14.X 

## Introduction

This proposal suggests adding new attributes and elements to support the automatic calculation of [Moments of Inertia and Products of Inertia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_moments_of_inertia) for a link in SDFormat 1.11. It also proposes adding support for parsing these elements and attributes in libsdformat14.

Setting physically plausible values for inertial parameters is crucial for an accurate simulation. However, these parameters are often complex to comprehend and visualize, and users may tend to enter wrong values leading to incorrect simulation. Therefore, native support for calculating inertial parameters through SDFormat specification would enable accurate simulations in simulators that use SDFormat.

## Document summary

The proposal includes the following sections:

> * [Motivation](#motivation): A short explanation to provide context reagrding the problem statement and the need for this feature

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* [Motivation](#motivation): A short explanation to provide context regarding the problem statement and the need for this feature
```

* [User Perspective](#user-perspective): Describes the current usage and the proposed usage by describing the terms to be added in the SDFormat specification
* [Proposed Implmentation](#proposed-implementation): Detailed explanation of the proposed implmentation and modifications to be done in the C++ API of requried libraries like libsdformat. 

## Syntax

The proposal uses [XPath syntax](https://www.w3schools.com/xml/xpath_syntax.asp) to describe elements and attributes concisely. For example, `<model>` tags are referred to as `//model` using XPath. XPath is even more concise for referring to nested tags and attributes. In the following example, `<link>` elements inside `<model>` tags are referenced as `//model/link` and  model `name` attributes as `//model/@name`:

> ```

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```xml
```

Both of these ways create a dependency on external software and might be complicated for beginners. Native support for this feature directly into libsdformat would facilitate the effortless generation of accurate simulations.

## User Perspective

To specify the `<inertial>` element of a `<link>` in SDFormat, the user needs to add the `<mass>`, `<pose>`, and `<inertia>` tags. Here `<mass>` is the mass of the link and `<pose>` is the pose of the Centre of Mass with respect to the link frame. The `<inertia>` tag, on the other hand, needs to enclose the following 6 tags:

 * `<ixx>` (Moment of Inertia)

 * `<iyy>` (Moment of Inertia)

 * `<izz>` (Moment of Inertia)

 * `<ixy>` (Product of Inertia)
 
 * `<ixz>` (Product of Inertia)
 
 * `<izy>` (Product of Inertia)

This proposal suggests the addition of the following in `SDFormat`: 

 1.  `//inertial/@auto` attribute that would tell `libsdformat` to calculate the Inertial values (Mass, Mass Matrix & Inertial Pose) automatically for the respective link. 

>  2. `//link/collision/density` element for specifying the density of the collision geometry. This density value would be used to calculate the inertial parameters of the respective collision geometry. Adding this as part of the `<collision>` tag would allow a user to simulate links with different material types for different collisions. By default, the value of density would be set equal to that of water which is 1000 kg/m^3.  

Reviewer 3: apologies for suggesting changes so late, but I think it would be nice to specify a single density in `//link/inertial/density` that would apply to all associated shapes. This is slightly less flexible, but it avoids duplicating the density values in each collision element

Author: Thank you for the suggestion @scpeters. 
This seems like a good option to have. However, given the remaining time frame before the code freeze and the remaining work, I am not sure if it would be possible to get this implemented. Would it suffice if we update the SDF spec to include the `//link/inertial/density` element before the code freeze and implement this functionality later in a minor release by overloading the [Collision::CalculateInertial()](https://github.com/jasmeet0915/sdformat/blob/5af78f710d38ed37ed7cc392a3a1a03b9e771fae/src/Collision.cc#L220) function to take the density value from Link as a parameter [when called](https://github.com/jasmeet0915/sdformat/blob/5af78f710d38ed37ed7cc392a3a1a03b9e771fae/src/Link.cc#L614)?

We would probably need this for another element (`//collision/auto_inertia_params`) that was added in https://github.com/gazebosim/sdformat/pull/1304 (Apologies for not mentioning this element in the proposal)

Reviewer 3: yes, that sounds totally reasonable. I think adding `//link/inertial/density` to the spec is enough for the first release

The example snippet below shows how the above proposed elements would be used in a SDFormat `<link>`:

> ```

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```xml
```

Both of these ways create a dependency on external software and might be complicated for beginners. Native support for this feature directly into libsdformat would facilitate the effortless generation of accurate simulations.

## User Perspective

To specify the `<inertial>` element of a `<link>` in SDFormat, the user needs to add the `<mass>`, `<pose>`, and `<inertia>` tags. Here `<mass>` is the mass of the link and `<pose>` is the pose of the Centre of Mass with respect to the link frame. The `<inertia>` tag, on the other hand, needs to enclose the following 6 tags:

 * `<ixx>` (Moment of Inertia)

 * `<iyy>` (Moment of Inertia)

 * `<izz>` (Moment of Inertia)

 * `<ixy>` (Product of Inertia)
 
 * `<ixz>` (Product of Inertia)
 
 * `<izy>` (Product of Inertia)

This proposal suggests the addition of the following in `SDFormat`: 

 1. An `auto` parameter for the `<inertia>` tag that would tell `libsdformat` to calculate Inertia matrix values automatically for the respective link. 

>  2. A `//link/collision/material_density` tag for specifying the density of the collision geometry. This density value would be used to calculate the inertial parameters of the respective collision geometry. Adding this as part of the `<collision>` tag would allow a user to simulate links with different material types for different collisions. By default, the value of density would be set equal to that of water which is 1000 kg/m^3.  

Reviewer 3: A link may contain 0 or multiple collision tags. The proposal should specify how inertial properties are computed in cases when there is not exactly 1 collision. If there are no collisions and the `auto` attribute is set to true, we could return an error. If there are multiple collisions, we could aggregate them using the `gz::math::Inertial` class and its `+` operator (see examples from its [unit test](https://github.com/gazebosim/gz-math/blob/gz-math7/src/Inertial_TEST.cc#L372-L621))

Author: @scpeters Thank you for the feedback. The case to handle multiple collisions is already under development [here](https://github.com/jasmeet0915/sdformat/tree/jasmeet/multi_collision_inertia) and would be added in [this](https://github.com/gazebosim/sdformat/pull/1299) PR. I'll also update the PR to handle a case of 0 collisions by returning an error and would update the proposal accordingly.

Author: Updated the section to include more information about different scenarios (multiple or no collisions) in [8b902d8](https://github.com/gazebosim/sdf_tutorials/pull/92/commits/8b902d835468ab130a8d2a832dedfd444e2013b0)

* **Status**: Draft
* **SDFormat Version**: 1.11
* **`libSDFormat` Version**: 14.X 

## Introduction

This proposal suggests adding new attributes and elements to support the automatic calculation of [Moments of Inertia and Products of Inertia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_moments_of_inertia) for a link in SDFormat 1.11. It also proposes adding support for parsing these elements and attributes in libsdformat14.

Setting physically plausible values for inertial parameters is crucial for an accurate simulation. However, these parameters are often complex to comprehend and visualize, and users may tend to enter wrong values leading to incorrect simulation. Therefore, native support for calculating inertial parameters through SDFormat specification would enable accurate simulations in simulators that use SDFormat.

## Document summary

The proposal includes the following sections:

* [Motivation](#motivation): A short explanation to provide context regarding the problem statement and the need for this feature
* [User Perspective](#user-perspective): Describes the current usage and the proposed usage by describing the terms to be added in the SDFormat specification

> * [Proposed Implementation](#proposed-implementation): Detailed explanation of the proposed implementation and modifications to be done in the C++ API of requried libraries like libsdformat. 

Author: Corrected in [8b902d8](https://github.com/gazebosim/sdf_tutorials/pull/92/commits/8b902d835468ab130a8d2a832dedfd444e2013b0)

## User Perspective

To specify the `<inertial>` element of a `<link>` in SDFormat, the user needs to add the `<mass>`, `<pose>`, and `<inertia>` tags. Here `<mass>` is the mass of the link and `<pose>` is the pose of the Centre of Mass with respect to the link frame. The `<inertia>` tag, on the other hand, needs to enclose the following 6 tags:

 * `<ixx>` (Moment of Inertia)

 * `<iyy>` (Moment of Inertia)

 * `<izz>` (Moment of Inertia)

 * `<ixy>` (Product of Inertia)
 
 * `<ixz>` (Product of Inertia)
 
 * `<izy>` (Product of Inertia)

This proposal suggests the addition of the following elements and attributes in `SDFormat Spec`: 

 1.  `//inertial/@auto` attribute that would tell `libsdformat` to calculate the Inertial values (Mass, Mass Matrix & Inertial Pose) automatically for the respective link. 

>  2. `//collision/density` element for specifying the density of the collision geometry. This density value would be used to calculate the inertial parameters of the respective collision geometry. Adding this as part of the `<collision>` tag would allow a user to simulate links with different material types for different collisions. By default, the value of density would be set equal to that of water which is 1000 kg/m^3. A `//link/inertial/density` element would also be added in the spec to allow users to specify the density values on a link level instead of specifying the same values for each collision.

Author: Corrected in [8b902d8](https://github.com/gazebosim/sdf_tutorials/pull/92/commits/8b902d835468ab130a8d2a832dedfd444e2013b0)

>  3. `//collision/auto_inertia_params` element would be added that can be used to provide some parameters or options for a custom inertia calculator. Similar to the `density` element above, a link-level `//link/inertial/auto_inertia_params` element would also be added. This would allow the user to provide inertia calculator params for the whole link while retainging the flexibility to specify different parameters for each collision. Custom elements and attributes using a namespace prefix can be used to provide the user-defined parameters for a custom calculator. More about this can be found in [this](http://sdformat.org/tutorials?tut=custom_elements_attributes_proposal&cat=pose_semantics_docs&#specifying-custom-elements-and-attributes) proposal.

Author: Corrected in [8b902d8](https://github.com/gazebosim/sdf_tutorials/pull/92/commits/8b902d835468ab130a8d2a832dedfd444e2013b0)

The example snippet below shows how the above proposed elements would be used in a SDFormat `<link>`:

```xml
<link name="robot_link">
  <inertial auto="true">
    <auto_inertia_params>
      <gz:voxel_size>0.01</gz:voxel_size>
    </auto_inertia_params>
  <collision name="collision">
    <density>*some_float_value*</density>
    <geometry>
      .
      .
    </geometry>
  </collision>
  <visual name="visual">
    <geometry>
      .
      .
    </geometry>
    <material>
      .
      .
    </material>
  </visual>
</link>
```

## Proposed Implementation

> > Note: In the section below, the term `primitive geometries` is used to collectively describe Box, Capusle, Cylinder, Ellipsoid and Sphere geometries.

Author: Corrected in [8b902d8](https://github.com/gazebosim/sdf_tutorials/pull/92/commits/8b902d835468ab130a8d2a832dedfd444e2013b0)

### Some Architectural Considerations

Below are some key architectural considerations for the implementation of this feature:

 *  The parsing of the proposed SDFormat elements and the Moment of Inertia calculations for primitive geometries (Box, Cylinder, Sphere, Ellipsoid and Capsule) can be implemented as an integral part of `libsdformat`. This would help enable all simulators that rely on SDFormat to utilize this feature.

>  * In case of 3D meshes being used as geometries, a modular callback-based architecture can be followed where the user can integrate their custom Moments of Inertia calculator.  A [Voxelization-based](#inertia-matrix-calculation-with-voxelization-for-3d-mesh) and an integration-based numerical method were explored for computing the inertial properties (mass, mass matrix and center of mass) of 3D meshes.

Author: Corrected in [8b902d8](https://github.com/gazebosim/sdf_tutorials/pull/92/commits/8b902d835468ab130a8d2a832dedfd444e2013b0)

 * For links where `<inertial>` tag is not set, the inertial calculations would be omitted if `<static>` is set to true. [By default](https://github.com/gazebosim/sdformat/blob/4530dba5e83b5ee7868156d3040e7554f93b19a6/src/Link.cc#L164) it is set as \\(I\_{xx}=I\_{yy}=I\_{zz}=1\\) and \\(I\_{xy}=I\_{yz}=I\_{xz}=0\\).

>  * The collision geometry of the link would used for all the inertial calculations. In case of multiple collisions, the inertial pose of each collision would be set in the link frame (if not already done) and then inertials would be aggregated using the `+` operator from the `gz::math::Inertial` class. If, however, no collisions are provided, an error would be thrown. 

Author: Added the error type in [8b902d8](https://github.com/gazebosim/sdf_tutorials/pull/92/commits/8b902d835468ab130a8d2a832dedfd444e2013b0)

  /// \param[in] _config Parser Configuration
  /// \param[out] _errors A vector of Errors object. Each object
  /// would contain an error code and an error message.
  /// \return A std::optional with gz::math::Inertiald object or std::nullopt
  public: std::optional<gz::math::Inertiald> CalculateInertial(double _density, const sdf::ElementPtr _autoInertiaParams, const ParserConfig &_config, sdf::Errors &_errors);

  //////////////////////////////////////////////////
  std::optional<gz::math::Inertiald> Mesh::CalculateInertial(double _density,
      const sdf::ElementPtr _autoInertiaParams, const ParserConfig &_config,
      sdf::Errors &_errors)
  {
    if (this->dataPtr->filePath.empty())
    {
      _errors.push_back({
        sdf::ErrorCode::WARNING,
        "File Path for the mesh was empty. Could not calculate inertia"});
      return std::nullopt;
    }

    const auto &customCalculator = _config.CustomInertiaCalc();

    sdf::CustomInertiaCalcProperties calcInterface = CustomInertiaCalcProperties(
      _density, *this, _autoInertiaParams);

    return customCalculator(_errors, calcInterface);
  }
```

### Configuring the `CalculateInertial()` function behavior

> `CalculateInertial()` functions are also added to the `sdf::Root`, `sdf::World`, `sdf::Model`, `sdf::Link`, `sdf::Collision` and then `sdf::Geometry` classes. Calling the `CalculateInertial()` function of any class, in turn recursively calls the `CalculateInertial()` for each element below it down the chain. For eg, generally a user might call the `Root::CalculateInertial()` which would in turn call `World::CalculateInertials()` for all the worlds which in turn calls the `Model::CaluclateInertials()` for all the models in the world and so on until the final `CalculateInertial()` for the respective geometry type is called where the chain ends.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`CalculateInertial()` functions are also added to the `sdf::Root`, `sdf::World`, `sdf::Model`, `sdf::Link`, `sdf::Collision` and then `sdf::Geometry` classes. Calling the `CalculateInertial()` function of any class, recursively calls the `CalculateInertial()` for each element below it down the chain. For eg, generally a user adds a callback to `Root::CalculateInertial()` which calls `World::CalculateInertials()` for all the worlds, which in turn calls the `Model::CaluclateInertials()` for all the models in the world and so on until the final `CalculateInertial()` for the respective geometry type is called where the chain ends.
```

Author: Corrected in [8b902d8](https://github.com/gazebosim/sdf_tutorials/pull/92/commits/8b902d835468ab130a8d2a832dedfd444e2013b0)

```C++
/// \enum ConfigureCalculateInertial
/// \brief Configuration options of how CalculateInertial() function
/// would be used
enum class ConfigureCalculateInertial
{
  /// \brief If this value is used, CalculateInertial() won't be 
  /// called from inside the Root::Load() function
  SKIP_CALCULATION_IN_LOAD,

  /// \brief If this values is used, CalculateInertial() would be 
  /// called and the computed inertial values would be saved 
  SAVE_CALCULATION
};
```

Setting values from the above enum for the `sdf::ParserConfig` object, the user can configure the `CalculateInertial()` functions. For eg: if the configuration is set to `SKIP_CALCULATION_IN_LOAD` (which would be the default configuration), then the `Root::CalculateInertial()` won't be called from within the `Root::Load()`. The user would need to call the `Root:CalculateInertial()` separately after the load is complete. This is also recommended as the inertia calculation uses the `PoseGraph` to resolve the inertial poses for different collisions if they are not in the link frame. 

## Proposed Mesh Inertia Calculation Methods

### Voxelization-based method

> Voxels are the 3D equivalent of a pixel in 2D. Voxels can be arranged in ‘Voxel Grids’ which are the 3D equivalent of a structured image using pixels. 

Author: Added a references section with all the links in [d0c2523](https://github.com/gazebosim/sdf_tutorials/pull/92/commits/d0c25238a22888f21e76c210a764cdb29c64b663)

 automatically generates a URDF with all the inertial parameters.

 * Another way is to use 3rd-party Mesh Processing Software like [Meshlab](https://www.meshlab.net/). 
 Such softwares take the mesh file as an input and 
 provide the inertial parameters as an output which can then be copied and pasted into 
 the URDF/SDF file. This is also the method that was suggested 
 in official [Classic Gazebo docs](https://classic.gazebosim.org/tutorials?cat=build_robot&tut=inertia).

Both of these ways create a dependency on external software and might be complicated for beginners. 
In case the user doesn't provide any inertial values, 
a default Mass Matrix is used with `mass = 1.0` and `Diagonal Elements = (1, 1, 1)` which might 
not be best suited for all kinds of models. Native support 
for automatic inertia calculations directly into `libsdformat` would work as a better alternative 
to using the default values and facilitate the 
effortless generation of accurate simulations.

## User Perspective

To specify the `<inertial>` element of a `<link>` in SDFormat, the user needs to add the 
`<mass>`, `<pose>`, and `<inertia>` tags. Here `<mass>` is the mass 

> of the link and `<pose>` is the pose of the Centre of Mass with respect to the link frame. 

Author: Corrected in [fca06ae](https://github.com/gazebosim/sdf_tutorials/pull/92/commits/fca06ae64a6843311fa125ff89c6f9a376c37599)

    </auto_inertia_params>
  <collision name="collision">
    <density>*some_float_value*</density>
    <geometry>
      .
      .
    </geometry>
  </collision>
  <visual name="visual">
    <geometry>
      .
      .
    </geometry>
    <material>
      .
      .
    </material>
  </visual>
</link>
```

## Proposed Implementation
> Note: In the section below, the term **primitive geometries** is used to collectively 
describe Box, Capusle, Cylinder, Ellipsoid and Sphere geometries.

### Some Architectural Considerations

Below are some key architectural considerations for the implementation of this feature:

 *  The parsing of the proposed SDFormat elements and the Moment of Inertia calculations 
 for primitive geometries (Box, Cylinder, Sphere, Ellipsoid and Capsule) can be implemented 
 as an integral part of `libsdformat`. This would help enable all simulators that rely on 
 SDFormat to utilize this feature.

 * In case of 3D meshes being used as geometries, a modular callback-based architecture 
 can be followed where the user can integrate their custom Moments of Inertia calculator. 
 [Two methods](#proposed-mesh-inertia-calculation-methods) were explored computing the 

>  inertial properties (mass, mass matrix and center of mass) of 3D meshes: a [Voxelization-based] 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 inertial properties (mass, mass matrix and center of mass) of 3D meshes: a [Voxelization-based](#voxelization-based-method)
```

Author: Corrected in [fca06ae](https://github.com/gazebosim/sdf_tutorials/pull/92/commits/fca06ae64a6843311fa125ff89c6f9a376c37599)

  /// called and the computed inertial values would be saved 
  SAVE_CALCULATION
};
```

Setting values from the above enum for the `sdf::ParserConfig` object, the user can 
configure the `CalculateInertial()` functions. For eg: if the configuration is set to 
`SKIP_CALCULATION_IN_LOAD` (which would be the default configuration), then the 
`Root::CalculateInertial()` won't be called from within the `Root::Load()`. The user 
would need to call the `Root:CalculateInertial()` separately after the load is complete. 
This is also recommended as the inertia calculation uses the `PoseGraph` to resolve the 
inertial poses for different collisions if they are not in the link frame. 

## Proposed Mesh Inertia Calculation Methods

### Voxelization-based method

Voxels are the 3D equivalent of a pixel in 2D<sup>[\[1\]](#References)</sup>. Voxels can 
be arranged in ‘Voxel Grids’ <sup>[\[2, 3\]](#References)</sup> which are the 3D equivalent 
of a structured image using pixels. 

During the voxelization of a point cloud or mesh, all the points in the 3D data are intersected 
with a Voxel Grid. The voxels which contain a point of the mesh are kept while others are zeroed 

> out(discarded). This way, we are left with a voxelized mesh that closely resembles the original mesh.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
out (discarded). This way, we are left with a voxelized mesh that closely resembles the original mesh.
```

Author: Corrected in [fca06ae](https://github.com/gazebosim/sdf_tutorials/pull/92/commits/fca06ae64a6843311fa125ff89c6f9a376c37599)

voxel using the voxel size (the simple volume formula of a cube can be used because voxels are cubes). 
Then mass for each element would be mass density, \\(\rho\\) multiplied by the volume, \\(dv\\). 
Considering the mass density to be constant and substituting in the above equations we get:

$$\begin{eqnarray}
I\_{11} = I\_{xx} = \rho\int (y^2 + z^2)dv \\\
I\_{22} = I\_{yy} = \rho\int (x^2 + z^2)dv \\\
I\_{33} = I\_{zz} = \rho\int (x^2 + y^2)dv \\\
I\_{12}  = I\_{xy} = \rho\int -xydv = I\_{yx} = I\_{21} \\\
I\_{13}  = I\_{xz} = \rho\int -xzdv = I\_{zx} = I\_{31} \\\
I\_{23}  = I\_{yz} = \rho\int -yzdv = I\_{zy} = I\_{32} \\\
\end{eqnarray}$$

#### Advantages of the Voxelization Approach
 * Voxelization is a generalized approach that would work for all kinds 
 of meshes (convex and non-convex meshes).
 * It can be made configurable by allowing the user to set an appropriate `voxel_size` 
 for the process. A smaller `voxel_size` would be comparitively computationally heavy 
 but would provide closer to real world value for moment of inertia.
 * Voxelization is more intuitive way of moment of inertia calculations as 
 compared to other integral methods.

> ### Integration-based numerical method

Reviewer: Does this method have any advantages? Maybe include a sentence or two on what usecases its suitable or any limitations?

Author: Added the section in [fca06ae](https://github.com/gazebosim/sdf_tutorials/pull/92/commits/fca06ae64a6843311fa125ff89c6f9a376c37599)

> It uses Gauss’s Theorem and Greene’s Theorem of integration to convert volume 
> integrals to surface integrals (Gauss’s Theorem) and then surface integrals to line 
> integrals(Greene’s Theorem)<sup>[\[5\]](#References)</sup>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This method utilizes Gauss’s Theorem and Greene’s Theorem of integration. First, we convert volume 
integrals to surface integrals using Gauss’s Theorem and then surface integrals to line 
integrals using Greene’s Theorem<sup>[\[5\]](#References)</sup>.
```

Author: Corrected in [fca06ae](https://github.com/gazebosim/sdf_tutorials/pull/92/commits/fca06ae64a6843311fa125ff89c6f9a376c37599)

This method works for triangle meshes which are simple water-tight polyhedrons. 

> Currently, the origin of the mesh being used needs to be set at the geometric centre 

Author: Corrected in [fca06ae](https://github.com/gazebosim/sdf_tutorials/pull/92/commits/fca06ae64a6843311fa125ff89c6f9a376c37599)

to obtain the correct value.
Since this method uses the vertex data for calculations, a high vertex count would be 

> required for near-ideal values. For eg, in case of a cylinder, it was observed that with 

Reviewer: This is important for usage right? Should this be documented some place else as well? Probably a Limitations or Considerations sub-section in implementation?

Author: The Proposed Implementation section of the proposal focuses more on the implementation from libsdformat's side. Therefore, instead of adding it there, I created a sub-section in the `Integration-based Numerical Method` and added this point. I have added some other points as well that explain this method's limitations and suitable use cases. The changes can be found in [fca06ae](https://github.com/gazebosim/sdf_tutorials/pull/92/commits/fca06ae64a6843311fa125ff89c6f9a376c37599)

Reviewer: Great thanks!

a vertex count of 4096, the inertial values obtained were withtin a 0.005 tolerance 
of the ideal values.

## References

 * [1]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Voxel

 * [2]: https://davidstutz.de/efficiently-voxelizing-watertight-meshes-into-occupancy-grids-and-signed-distance-functions/\

 * [3]: https://towardsdatascience.com/how-to-voxelize-meshes-and-point-clouds-in-python-ca94d403f81d

 * [4]: https://blog.spatial.com/the-main-benefits-and-disadvantages-of-voxel-modeling

>  * [5]: https://www.geometrictools.com/Documentation/PolyhedralMassProperties.pdf

Reviewer: List is not being rendered

Author: It seems to be rendered correctly for me. 
![Screenshot from 2023-09-09 00-51-54](https://github.com/gazebosim/sdf_tutorials/assets/23265149/79055753-706b-4dd8-b465-b79063b1a1c1)
Are you referring to the bullets and numbers both being rendered? I tried removing the bullets but that resulted in the list not being rendered at all.

<script src='https://cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/mathjax/2.7.5/MathJax.js?config=TeX-MML-AM_CHTML' async></script>

> # Automatically Compute Inertia Tensor Proposal

Reviewer 2: Any reason why this title is different from the title in manifest.xml?

Author: Ohh thank you for pointing that out. I have corrected the titles in both in [8eba84c](https://github.com/gazebosim/sdf_tutorials/pull/92/commits/8eba84c738ecc39bebe599aba4e9adf5d5e599cb)

Inertia Calculator. An `enum class` would be added to the `sdf::ParserConfig` with values 
that would allow the user to configure the behavior of the `CalculateInertial()` function:

```C++
/// \enum ConfigureCalculateInertial
/// \brief Configuration options of how CalculateInertial() function
/// would be used
enum class ConfigureCalculateInertial
{
  /// \brief If this value is used, CalculateInertial() won't be 
  /// called from inside the Root::Load() function
  SKIP_CALCULATION_IN_LOAD,

  /// \brief If this values is used, CalculateInertial() would be 
  /// called and the computed inertial values would be saved 
  SAVE_CALCULATION
};
```

Setting values from the above enum for the `sdf::ParserConfig` object, the user can 
configure the `CalculateInertial()` functions. For eg: if the configuration is set to 
`SKIP_CALCULATION_IN_LOAD` (which would be the default configuration), then the 
`Root::CalculateInertial()` won't be called from within the `Root::Load()`. The user 
would need to call the `Root:CalculateInertial()` separately after the load is complete. 
This is also recommended as the inertia calculation uses the `PoseGraph` to resolve the 

> inertial poses for different collisions if they are not in the link frame. 

Reviewer 2: I wouldn't say it's recommended because the way we have it set up now, `Root::CalculateInertial` is called in `Root::Load` after the PoseGraph has been built. I would instead say these configurations would allow the user to skip inertial calculation if they know the the DOM object doesn't have a valid PoseGraph.

Author: Updated the doc in [52b582e](https://github.com/gazebosim/sdf_tutorials/pull/92/commits/52b582ee7c155e32a76fe28b278d6af3276b5967)

\end{eqnarray}$$

#### Advantages of the Voxelization Approach
 * Voxelization is a generalized approach that would work for all kinds 
 of meshes (convex and non-convex meshes).
 * It can be made configurable by allowing the user to set an appropriate `voxel_size` 
 for the process. A smaller `voxel_size` would be comparitively computationally heavy 
 but would provide closer to real world value for moment of inertia.
 * Voxelization is more intuitive way of moment of inertia calculations as 
 compared to other integral methods.

### Integration-based numerical method
This method utilizes Gauss’s Theorem and Greene’s Theorem of integration. First, we convert volume 
integrals to surface integrals using Gauss’s Theorem and then surface integrals to line 
integrals using Greene’s Theorem<sup>[\[5\]](#References)</sup>.
This method works for triangle meshes which are simple water-tight polyhedrons. 
Currently, the origin of the mesh being used needs to be set at the geometric center 
to obtain the correct value.

#### Some Key Points Regarding the Integration-based numerical method

 * Water-tight triangle meshes are required for the Mesh Inertia Calculator.

>  * The inertia in this method is calculated about the mesh origin. Since the link inertia value needs to be about the Center of Mass, the mesh origin needs to be set at the Center of Mass (Centroid) of the mesh.

Reviewer 2: This is discussing something implemented in gz-sim, so perhaps we should say there's a reference implementation in gz-sim and point to the file before listing these key points. Alternatively, we could remove this altogether since it'll be documented in gz-sim.

Author: I have added a link to the reference implementation in [52b582e](https://github.com/gazebosim/sdf_tutorials/pull/92/commits/52b582ee7c155e32a76fe28b278d6af3276b5967)
